Update AEAD limits for larger packets (#4175)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-tls.md

: The amount of offline ideal cipher queries made by an adversary.

The analyses that follow rely on a count of the number of block operations
involved in producing each message. This analysis is performed for packets of

> up to 2^11 (l = 2^7) and 2^16 (l = 2^12). A size of 2^11 is expected to be a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
size up to 2^11 (l = 2^7) and 2^16 (l = 2^12). A size of 2^11 is expected to be a
```

limit that matches common deployment patterns, whereas the 2^16 is the maximum
possible size of a QUIC packet. Only endpoints that strictly limit packet size

> can use the larger limits that are derived using the smaller packet size.

Reviewer: limit is being used for multiple things here -- these limits and also packet size limit. 
```suggestion
can use the larger confidentiality and integrity limits that are derived using the smaller packet size.
```

attacker is:

~~~

> 2 * (q * l)^2 / 2^n

Author: I forgot to call this out.  @chris-wood, can you check that this is right here?  I think that this comes from the `\sigma*B/2^n` term in Bad3 in [the paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/993.pdf), but I want to make sure that my understanding is correct in that we are treating `\sigma*B` as `\sigma^2` in the single-user case.

~~~

For a target advantage of 2^-57, this results in the relation:

~~~
q <= 2^35 / l
~~~

Thus, endpoints that do not send packets larger than 2^11 bytes cannot protect
more than 2^28 packets in a single connection without causing an attacker to
gain an larger advantage than the target of 2^-57. The limit for endpoints that

> do not limit packet size is instead 2^23.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allow for the packet size to be as large as 2^16 is instead 2^23.
```

significant effect on the result. This produces the following approximation:

~~~
v <= 2^64 / l
~~~

Endpoints that do not attempt to remove protection from packets larger than

> 2^11 bytes can attempt to remove protection from at most 2^57 packets. Packets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2^11 bytes can attempt to remove protection from at most 2^57 packets. Endpoints
```

> attempt to remove protection from any packet can attempt to remove protection
> from at most 2^52 packets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that do not restrict the size of processed packets can attempt to remove protection
from at most 2^52 packets.
```

(2l * q)^2 / 2^n
~~~

The integrity limit in Theorem 1 in {{?CCM-ANALYSIS}} provides an attacker a

> strictly higher advantage for the same number of messages. As the targets

Author: I'm trying to say that the "value of the goal" is the same.  I think that this is correct.

I think that you might say "target advantages for A and B", but I think that "advantages" means something else and so I avoided the plural.

Maybe instead "As the target for both the confidentiality advantage and integrity advantage is the same, ..." ?

My grammar skillz aren't up to this, clearly.

> strictly higher advantage for the same number of messages. As the targets

Reviewer 2: Or plural works in that last arrangement, so "As the targets for the confidentiality advantage and the integrity advantage are the same...."  I think any of them are fine, so long as they agree in number.  What stuck out to me was "targets advantage" more than anything else.

the confidentiality advantage and the integrity advantage are the same, only
Theorem 1 needs to be considered.

Theorem 1 establishes that an attacker gains an advantage over an
ideal PRP of no more than:

~~~
v / 2^t + (2l * (v + q))^2 / 2^n
~~~

As `t` and `n` are both 128, the first term is negligible relative to the
second, so that term can be removed without a significant effect on the result.

This produces a relation that combines both encryption and decryption attempts
with the same limit as that produced by the theorem for confidentiality alone.
For a target advantage of 2^-57, this results in:

~~~
v + q <= 2^34.5 / l
~~~

By setting `q = v`, values for both confidentiality and integrity limits can be
produced. Endpoints that limit packets to 2^11 bytes therefore have both
confidentiality and integrity limits of 2^26.5 packets. Endpoints that do not

> limit packet size have a limit of 2^21.5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
restrict packet size have a limit of 2^21.5.
```
